Clinging for dear life to a rope atop the Byron house, Percy could not believe that he had missed this from the street. He looked up and contemplated the hot-air balloon with the large, square wicker box attached beneath it. It was a bit windy, and he was not really wearing the right sort of shoes for roof-climbing, and certainly not for rope climbing. The whole situation was not only markedly unusual, but also awkward and uncomfortable. He decided to call up to the balloon.
"Lady Byron?" Percy called. "Lady Ada?"
"Go away," said a small but determined voice from the wicker box. "I'm... please do allow me to introduce myself. I am Mr… Snagsby, your
new tutor."
"Go. Away." said the voice, this time with even more determination.
"I'm to be your new tutor," he shouted over the wind. "I have a letter here from the Baroness Wentworth, um, your mother…"
"Are you daft or are you just deaf?" inquired the voice from beneath the hot-air balloon.
"Well, I'm afraid it is a bit windy up here, which can make it a bit difficult to hear exact words, particularly as you're speaking from within what appears to be a gondola of sorts. A gondola is what you call the basket under a hot-air balloon—"
"I know what a gondola is. I have one," said the voice. Percy continued, only slightly deterred, "Well, what I could make out were the words ‘go' and ‘away.'"
"Ah, so not deaf then." "No. No I'm afraid not."
"So just daft, then," deduced the voice.
"I say, that's not terribly fair," huffed Percy.
"Not fair? Not FAIR?" roared the voice from the box. The hatch popped open and Ada's head appeared, her hair even more disheveled than usual. "I'll tell you what's not fair! It's not fair that Miss Coverlet had to go marry stupid Cecil, it's not fair that she's not here and you are! It's not fair that my mother has gone to live in the country. It's not fair that I can't just be left alone!"
"Lady Ada, if I'm to be your tutor..."
"You're not. Go away. There's no one for you to tute." "I'm quite certain that's not a word," offered Percy.
"Why not? Plumbers plumb. Waiters wait. Butlers buttle. Tutors tute." "Butlers don't—"
"You're IMPOSSIBLE!" yelled Ada, who disappeared back into the wicker fort and slammed the hatch.
Percy was not, in fact, daft. But he did feel rather daft at that moment, his shoes slipping on the roof tiles, clinging to a knotted rope, staring up at his pupil who was firmly shut in a large wicker box.
He was startled by the loud clang of a ship's bell, right outside the attic window. He hadn't noticed the bell before, but he certainly had noticed Mr. Franklin, the house's extraordinarily tall and curiously silent butler, who now struck the bell once more.
A window popped open on the side of the basket, and the lens of a clicking brass telescope emerged. Ada clearly wanted to see what the bell heralded without having to address Percy. Mr. Franklin extended both hands out the window, one palm up as if to offer something, the other making a winding motion, as though turning a crank.
"It's Mr. Babbage!" Ada cried with delight from within the basket. The hatch flew open, and Ada tossed out a rope ladder, scrambled down and nearly knocked Percy off the roof into the street. Percy slid and clutched desperately at his knotted rope, recovering in time to see a rather worn, stained, and outgrown dress clamber over the windowsill and slip into the attic. With no further reason to remain on the roof (although the view was extraordinary), Percy followed, taking it rather personally that clearly not all of Lady Ada's visitors were met with such disdain.
Once he was over the windowsill, he fully expected to find himself alone in the attic. It was dusty as attics ought to be, for mysterious atticky reasons. There were other things one would expect: furniture in ghost costumes of big white sheets, a hobby-horse clearly outgrown, large steamer-trunks bearing unknown treasures. It also held both Mr. Franklin and Ada, who had momentarily suspended her excitement over Mr. Babbage's arrival to examine the leather case Percy had left there before heading out onto the roof.
"What's in here?" asked Ada. "Books," Percy replied.
"What sorts of books?"
"All sorts. History. Language. Poetry..." "I hate poetry," Ada insisted.
"You are not to."
"Not to what?" she asked.
"Not to hate poetry." He was quite emphatic about this point, which got Ada's attention. "But there are other books. Chemistry. Mathematics..."
"Mathematics! By who? What do you have in there?" With that Ada sat on the floor and began fiddling with the case's brass clasp and finding it locked. "What's this?" she asked, pointing to the small brass plate by the handle. "P.B.S. What's it mean?"
"That's my monogram. My initials. Percy B., er, Snagsby. It's my name." "Why'd you do that?"
"Why did I put my monogram on my case? To make it more... mine, I suppose."
"Huh," said Ada. It was hard to determine, but it seemed to Percy a rather approving "huh" as far as "huh"s go.
"All right, Peebs. You may show me your books. After." "Peebs?" Percy asked.
"P.B.S. Peebs. That's your name. Anyway, it shall have to wait until after." "I'm sorry? After which, Lady Ada?"
"After Mr. Babbage, of course! He only comes once a week, so you'll just have to wait." And with a cheerfulness that nearly knocked Percy off his feet, Ada ran to the door and down the stairs.
Percy looked at the looming butler. "Odd," he said. "I was under the impression the young lady was not fond of visitors."
Mr. Franklin raised an eyebrow, which silenced Percy completely.
